README.md, before:


# POGS
The Platform for Online Group Studies (POGS) is a tool to study collective learning.

[![Travis build status](https://img.shields.io/travis/CCI-MIT/POGS.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/CCI-MIT/POGS)

PLEASE DON'T COMMIT TO MASTER.

The procedures are changing and have not yet been documented.

There is an active developer working on this project, you can easily see from the commit logs. 

If you are having problems setting it up, you can contact me by email (You should have it).


## Simple download and play procedure

1. Install [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
2. Clone this repository, at the repo's root copy the sample.env file to a local .env file:
```cp sample.env .env``` 
 This file has all the usernames and passwords used in the system. It is advised to change this on production setups.
3. At the repo's root directory run:

```
docker-compose up
```


Open a browser window at :
```http://localhost:8080/admin```
```
User: admin@pogs.info

Password: pogs1234
```
The first time docker will install everything we need to run POGS, it may take a while.
The next executions will be a lot faster. The .mysql/ dir will save database changes between server restarts.

To stop it just hit
```
ctrl + c
```

## Development install procedure

1 Install all dependencies
 
 - Install Java 8 JRE
 - Install mysql-server 5.7
 - Install nodejs (used for sass) version v9.11.1
 
2 On mysql create a new database:

```
CREATE SCHEMA pogs;
```

3 Open file application-database-config.yml
Adjust the username and password to the ones you configured during the mysql database installation
 
```
  username: root
  password: 1234
```
4 Make sure that redis-server is running.
```
$redis-cli ping
PONG
```
if not start it with:
```
$redis-server & 
```

5 Go to the root directory and run

```
mvn clean compile package install 
```

6 Go to Intellij and use RUN the configuration called "POGS (development)". If you don't see that configuration, you can also run the application directly from the `PlatformForOnlineGroupStudiesApplication` class. Make sure you set the active profile to development, which enables hot reloading of static files.

or run as standalone server:

7 Run as standalone server:

In the root directory:
```
java -jar target/pogs-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar
```

Commit message:

Added instructions on how to setup in java_home not set to java 8 raising the issue about JAXB

README.md, after:


# POGS
The Platform for Online Group Studies (POGS) is a tool to study collective learning.

[![Travis build status](https://img.shields.io/travis/CCI-MIT/POGS.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/CCI-MIT/POGS)

PLEASE DON'T COMMIT TO MASTER.

The procedures are changing and have not yet been documented.

There is an active developer working on this project, you can easily see from the commit logs. 

If you are having problems setting it up, you can contact me by email (You should have it).


## Simple download and play procedure

1. Install [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
2. Clone this repository, at the repo's root copy the sample.env file to a local .env file:
```cp sample.env .env``` 
 This file has all the usernames and passwords used in the system. It is advised to change this on production setups.
3. At the repo's root directory run:

```
docker-compose up
```


Open a browser window at :
```http://localhost:8080/admin```
```
User: admin@pogs.info

Password: pogs1234
```
The first time docker will install everything we need to run POGS, it may take a while.
The next executions will be a lot faster. The .mysql/ dir will save database changes between server restarts.

To stop it just hit
```
ctrl + c
```

## Development install procedure

1 Install all dependencies
 
 - Install Java 8 JRE
 - Install mysql-server 5.7
 - Install nodejs (used for sass) version v9.11.1
 
 On macs be sure to use the java 8 home 
``` 
 "export JAVA_HOME=`/usr/libexec/java_home -v 1.8`;java -version"
```

2 On mysql create a new database:

```
CREATE SCHEMA pogs;
```

3 Open file application-database-config.yml
Adjust the username and password to the ones you configured during the mysql database installation
 
```
  username: root
  password: 1234
```
4 Make sure that redis-server is running.
```
$redis-cli ping
PONG
```
if not start it with:
```
$redis-server & 
```

5 Go to the root directory and run

```
mvn clean compile package install 
```

6 Go to Intellij and use RUN the configuration called "POGS (development)". If you don't see that configuration, you can also run the application directly from the `PlatformForOnlineGroupStudiesApplication` class. Make sure you set the active profile to development, which enables hot reloading of static files.

or run as standalone server:

7 Run as standalone server:

In the root directory:
```
java -jar target/pogs-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar
```
